## Unity Scripting API (C#)

I have spent most of my programming experience creating scripts in Unity.  It is a robust and well-written library, and in more than a few ways I believe it to be a "good program". 

In order to best access the Unity Scripting Library in C#, the user should use the Unity 3D game engine. This not only provides a straight forward way of organizing and using the library, but also, this is what the library was created for and it provides an interface in which to explore all the changes and objects being manipulated through the code the user writes.  Within this context, the program works and works -in my experience - very well. There is obviously a learning curve, but there is always a learning curve when tackling a new program or programming language. However, there are many resources available to help new users.

This brings me to my second point: the documentation.  Unity's Scripting Reference is one of the most helpful and well written ones that I have encountered. For almost every function, class, command, whatever, there is cohesive and understandable documentation regarding it.  Also, almost all of documentation contains one or more examples of how that piece of the API is used. I have learned all I know about scripting largely from searching terms in the scripting reference.  Also, the scripting reference is constantly being updated to reflect the current and working versions of Unity.  Legacy or deprecated scripts are usually also documented and commented as such. One of the problems with the program in my opinion is also one of it's strong points and that is that it is constantly evolving and updating.  New versions are regularly released with new ways of doing things.  This can be challenging if you spend time away from the program and come back to find that your script is not working or the project you had slaved over is not compatible with the new version. However, the changes made to Unity tend to be beneficial over the long run and good programmers are able to update their code or plug-in to work with the version updates. 

When there are specific tasks I want to accomplish that are not covered by the Unity documentation,  Googling the solution is not a difficult option.  The community and number of people who use Unity and have questions (and answers) regarding writing code to accomplish specific tasks is very high.  I have never had to actually ask a question on any of the forums because I can usually find someone who has already asked that question and gotten an answer or has a question that has was tangentially related to my own and I turned to the documentation or figured out the rest of the steps on my own.  And when the Unity community does not have an answer I can sometimes go to the C# community to find it as well. All in all there, are not many things that I have not been able to do in Unity that I have put any sort of effort towards. 